hey how's it going guys this is Dave - D
and this is my video on the Alienware
alpha r2 so this is our second
generation alpha the first generation
was a pretty decent device it took the
desktop experience put it into a small
form-factor
but this year's version is quite a bit
improved let's take a look alright
inside the box you get the Alpha itself
and a lumen or keyboard and mouse and
the AC adapter it starts at six hundred
dollars but the configuration I have
here is their top spec it's running a
quad-core skylake i7 eight gigs of ram a
terabyte of storage and a desktop-class
gtx 960 and this configuration goes for
nine hundred and fifty dollars just a
quick word about the keyboard and the
mouse they're both ok I wouldn't rely on
them for competitive gameplay or
anything but they're good enough to kind
of get you started on the system the
exterior of the Alfa hasn't changed it
looks pretty much like last year's Alfa
or there C machine it's a black
polycarbonate build with the Alienware
triangle design up top the shell is
plastic but it's densely packed and it
feels pretty solid there's two LED
sections that you can customize the
alien head over here lights up and this
little triangle area also lights up both
of them are RGB and they're controlled
by the Alienware software it's pretty
easy to customize a look for ports we
have four USB threes two in the front
two in the back and HDMI 2.0 in and out
so this lets you do pass-through of
other devices it also has a thorough net
optical audio out and there's a USB 2
port underneath so this is where you can
put your dongle for a wireless mouse or
a keyboard but the Alpha has bluetooth
so you may not even need to use this now
it's missing analog audio jacks so if
you need sound and you probably do
you'll either have to use a USB headset
or to use the jacks on the back of your
display either way will work the other
thing that's missing is Thunderbolt 3 it
bugs me at first because if you have a
thunderbolt read drive or a thunderbolt
3 display you can't use them but if
you're looking for an external graphics
connection you can still do it but
you're using the Alienware graphics amp
so the amp has been around for a while
it's essentially an external GPU that is
cheaper and slightly better performing
than the Razer core right now but it's
bit bigger and it only
works with Alienware devices but for
$200 this thing gives you incredible
upgrade potential and quote-unquote
future proofing if you want to use that
term so if you want to bump up
performance to do 4k gaming have your VR
stuff whatever you want you can pop in
any current Nvidia or AMD card and I'll
get like 90 to 95% of that cards desktop
performance is pretty close now keep in
mind you need to have the alpha with the
GTX 960 to connect to the amp the base
model with the AMD card can't do it and
the amplifier connects to the alpha
using this port on the Left uses a
six-foot cable so you can place the amp
further away if you want to get inside
the Alpha it's just four screws you
remove the cage and you get access to
the two and a half inch drive bay you
can swap this one out for an SSD if you
want and you can flip it over and
there's actually room for a second
storage drive this is new for the second
general fho it's an empty PCIe slot and
it brings a lot of extra functionality
to the alpha if you want to record
gameplay edit videos or if you just want
more storage space having a second
internal drive is really nice you also
have access to the single channel RAM
slot here so I'm running eight gigs but
you can replace it with a 16 gig stick
if you want the CPU and GPU are soldered
on and cannot be upgraded the fans are
pretty quiet when it's on idle it's
audible but it won't bother you at Full
Tilt it's not crazy loud but you'll want
to have some speakers or headphones when
you're using it
thermally it's well cooled those blower
style fans do a good job there's no
throttling and nothing runs at
uncomfortable temperatures gaming
performance is good remember it uses a
desktop-class GTX 960 not the 960 m that
we often see in laptops but the legit
desktop version so lightweight titles
run really easily on this csgo and super
hot won't even break a sweat on this
thing at max graphics 1080p something a
little heavier like overwatch still runs
really nicely on ultra and even epic
graphics at 1080p it'll maintain 60
frames per second or higher and in
general moderately demanding 3d titles
run really smooth now heavy titles it
depends on the game but stuff like Far
Cry and witcher 3 you can run it at 60
frames per second at 1080p but you'll
need to drop down the graphic setting to
around
Villar on the built-in gtx 960 isn't
really viable the spec sheets don't lie
you do need a gtx 970 or better if you
connect the Alienware graphics amp
performance is going to be way better as
long as you're running an appropriate
card it depends on the card you're
putting in but if you drop in a 970 or
better VR becomes super smooth and if
you drop a GTX 1080 in their 4k gaming
becomes a thing so something else to
note this entire video was edited using
premiere on the Alpha I record in 4k and
editing this video was super smooth even
with only 8 gigs of RAM that second
internal drive and of course the GTX 960
are really nice for video editing the AC
adapter is 180 watts it's not too big
but if you plan on traveling back and
forth with an alpha maybe pick up a
second adapter so you can leave one in
both places that we don't bring the
adapter with you so if you spec it out
right the Alienware alpha can be
anything it's simple enough to be
someone's first PC it can play games and
even do VR if you're using the amp it
can also be a small media center for
your living room so you can just plug it
up and start watching movies or you can
download hive mind from Alienware which
is like a media hub for all of your
games and stuff and you can customize it
and you can launch all the games and
apps with a controller while you're
sitting on the couch is kind of cool
you can also use it as a console like
gaming system so if you connect a
wireless controller you basically have a
console killer and you can also run it
as a portable work PC so if you have two
locations that have a monitor and a
keyboard so let's say work and home or
if your student into your dorm and your
parents house it's super easy to
transport this thing back and forth and
every time you plug it up you're getting
the full desktop experience and that's
really its strength you got all the
functionality of a desktop with a gtx
960 in a box the size of a Nintendo Wii
now it's not going to be as cheap as
building a mini ITX system but the Alpha
is way smaller and super easy to
transport so because of the portability
and the strong performance of this thing
it's a very versatile device you can
play games on it you can do work on it
you can edit videos on it basically you
have the strength of a desktop PC in a
very small package now having a super
powerful computer that's also really
small obviously isn't everyone's dream
but if you've been looking for a gaming
laptop because you want portable
performance also take a look at the
Alpha it might be a good fit that's the
end of this video hope you guys liked it
thumbs if you liked it subs if you loved
it it's been nice I'll see you guys next
time